# opsoint
become an online inspector


open source intelligence isn't a modern
technique it has been around since the
very beginning in fact during the second
world war Lieutenant General Samuel B
Wilson who headed the American defense
intelligence agency in the 70s made an
astounding claim that he received 90 of
intelligence data through open sources
but what exactly is open source
intelligence and what does it mean in
the Modern Age of Technology well in
simple terms open source intelligence or
ocean refers to the process of gathering
publicly available information about a
person company or an organization from a
variety of sources that are accessible
for anyone to see these sources can
range from social media platforms and
websites to public records and news
OSINT Example
articles for example let's say you want
to find out more information about who
this particular person hangs around with
but when you go to their Facebook's
friend list you notice that they've
hidden or concealed this information so
what can you do in a scenario like this
well if you go ahead and open up their
profile photo cover photo or any other
post made by them that is set to public
you can look at the likes or comments to
possibly get some Clues such as the full
names of their friends and the people
they frequently interact with this small
amount of intelligence that we just
gathered is called open source
intelligence now you might be wondering
that okay so what if we got their full
names how can we find more about them
well this is where our first oceans
technique called Google hacking or
Google Dorking comes into play but
before we get into that a quick
disclaimer while Gathering publicly
available information is legal using it
to compromise security or engaging in
other activities with ill intent can
still result in trouble real quick this
video is meant for educational purposes
only and strongly discourages an ethical
Google Dorking
Behavior anyway coming back to the topic
Google Dorking involves utilizing Google
search engine with special search
operators to find information that may
not be easily found through regular
searches for example let's say we're
looking to purchase a Wireless Wi-Fi
adapter and we conduct a search on
Google in this scenario Google will
present us with wireless adapters
available on different websites from
across the globe but what if we
specifically want to see search results
from a particular website like Amazon
well in that case we can employ a
special search operator called site
colon followed by amazon.com in the
search query like this to exclusively
see search results limited to Amazon
this practice is essentially what we
refer to as Google hacking or Google
Finding Documents
Dorking now similarly if you possess the
full name of your target you can go
ahead and search for every publicly
available PDF Excel or Word document
posted online containing the exact name
using the file type search operator to
accomplish this you would first enter
the victim's name enclosed an inverted
Comet like this and then write file type
to specify the types of files you want
to search for the all research operator
used here tells the search engine to
also include Excel and Word Documents in
the search results after hitting enter
the search results will display all the
documents that may be associated with
the provided name this can be very
effective as the documents found might
include court records resumes or other
official documents that can give insight
into a person's life the beautiful
aspect of Google Dorking is that if you
wish to refine these search results even
further by targeting a particular
website such as the victims University
or workplace you can achieve it by
incorporating the sitecolon search
operator we discussed earlier now if you
would like to experiment with different
search operators on your own I will
provide a link to a cheat sheet in the
description down below that includes
various search operators specifically
tailored for open source intelligence
Additionally you can also visit a
website called the Google hacking
database where several people have
created and posted multiple search
strings to find juicy information now if
Facial Recognition
your victim has a photo of themselves as
their profile picture you can conduct a
search for them based on their facial
features using a fascinating tool called
demise this tool utilizes AI facial
recognition to search for the same
person across the internet and help us
gather additional information about
Reverse Image Search
their online presence and if the victim
has upload did a photograph of
themselves standing outside next to a
building or something without providing
any specific information as to where
they might be you can head over to
images.google.com click on search by
image and upload that photograph to
initiate a reverse image search by
analyzing the visual characteristics of
the image and comparing it to similar
images across the web Google May provide
valuable information about where the
photograph was taken or other related
details additionally if you couldn't
find anything using Google images you
can also explore other tools available
for conducting reverse image searches by
searching for them on the Internet next
Find Info on Email
if you have managed to obtain the email
address of your victim through Google
Dorking or any other means you can also
conduct a reverse email search on them
using a useful tool called fbos this
tool allows you to search for social
media accounts associated with an email
address and explore other activities
carried out by the owner of that email
such as their contributions to Google
Maps finding multiple social media
accounts of our victim is a great way to
learn more about their interests for
example a programmer is likely to have
an active profile on GitHub while an
artist may have profiles on platforms
Searching Social Media Accounts
like Pixar or deviantART exploring
different social media accounts can
provide valuable insights into the
Hobby's passions and creative Pursuits
of an individual when looking for social
media accounts associated with a person
there's another fantastic website called
socialsearcher.com this website allows
you to perform a comprehensive Google
search using the victim's full name
across multiple social media platforms
simultaneously and save a lot of
valuable time slash effort you can also
head over to checkusernames.com and
search for a specific username on over
more than 100 social media platforms
this tool can be very effective as many
people prefer using a single username
across the internet similar to feos a
Phone Number OSINT
website called that's that is another
great tool for finding information on
both email addresses and phone numbers
phone numbers can also provide a wealth
of information when conducting an ocean
investigation and if you're interested
in learning more about phonos and
techniques you can check out my detailed
video on the topic by clicking the I
Intel Techniques
button above Intel techniques by Michael
basil is also a good resource which
provides multiple tools to gather
information about our targets from their
social media accounts this website
gathers all the important links in one
place saving us time that we would
otherwise spend manually going through
our targets profiles anyway guys this is
it for the video now I could go ahead
and discuss several more tools and
sources that can be utilized for finding
information about someone but I want to
encourage you to visit the ocean
framework yourself and explore the
multiple tools available there if you
have any questions regarding the video
make sure to ask them in the comments
section below and I will see you in the
next one
